---
layout: post
title:  "Chapter 3"
date:   2015-11-23 12:05:45 -0600
---

# Exercise 3.5.5

Proof 3.3.4 uses structural induction.

# Exercise 3.3.4

__Induction on depth__

Let \\(s\\) be a term of arbitrary depth. We are given that
for every term \\(r\\) whose depth is smaller than the depth of \\(s\\),
\\(P(r)\\) holds. We need to show that \\(P(s)\\) holds for all \\(s\\) to prove
that _induction on depth_ works.

Let us define \\(Q(n) = ∀ s . depth(s) = n ⇒ P(s)\\).

Proof: by induction on \\(n\\).
Base case: \\(n = 1\\). \\(Q(true)\\), \\(Q(false)\\), \\(Q(0)\\) must
hold since they have depth 1.

Let us assume \\(Q(n)\\) holds for all \\(n = 1, \dots, k\\). We need to show
that \\(Q(k + 1)\\).

\\(Q(k + 1) = \forall s . depth(s) = k + 1 ⇒ P(s)\\). We have 4 cases for \\(s\\):

_Case 1:_ $$s$$ has form \\(succ~s'\\) where \\(s'\\) has depth \\(k\\).
So by our induction hypothesis, \\(P(s)\\) holds.

_Case 2:_ $$s$$ has form \\(pred~s'\\) where s' has depth \\(k\\) so
\\(P(s')\\) holds by our induction hypothesis.

_Case 3:_ $$s$$ has form \\(iszero~s'\\) where where s' has a smaller depth than that of s.
So P(s') holds by our induction hypothesis.

Case 4: $$s$$ has form \\(if s'_1~then~s'_2~else~s'_3\\) all of \\(s'_1, s'_2, s'_3\\)
have depths $$ = k$$. So \\(P(s)\\) holds on them too, by our induction
hypothesis.

So  \\(Q(n)\\) holds for all \\(n\\), which was what we needed to show.

__Induction on size__

The reasoning for this one is almost exacly the same for _induction on depth.

__Structural induction__: TODO

# Exercises 3.5.10

| \\[\frac{t ⟶ t'}{t ⟶^* t'}~~~~\\] | (1) | Closure on (⟶) |
|---|---|
| \\[t ⟶^* t\\] | __(2)__ | Reflexivity of multi-step evaluation. |
|---|---|
| \\[~~~~\frac{t ⟶^* t'~~~~~t' ⟶^* t''}{t ⟶^* t''}\\] | __(3)__ | Transitivity of multi-step evaluation. |
|---|---|

# Exercise 3.5.13

### 3.5.13.1

* 3.5.4: broken, since $$t$$ can now evaluate to both $$t'$$ and $$t''$$.
* 3.5.11: broken, with a similar reasoning.

* 3.5.7: remains valid.
* 3.5.8: remains valid.
* 3.5.12: remains valid.

### 3.5.13.2

Now only 3.5.4 is broken. Unlike __E-FUNNY1__, this rule is not doing something
that is against our intuition of the language we've defined; it simply jumps
ahead hence messing up the order. We end up having two different
evaluation rules for the same expression (i.e., $$if~t_1~then~t_2~else~t_3$$) so
we can't know which one to apply hence the determinacy is broken.

__E-FUNNY2__


